MM-31925 Channel Sidebar features no longer experimental (#4268)
mattermost/docs: source/help/getting-started/organizing-your-sidebar.rst

Organizing Your Sidebar
=======================

You can manage and customize channels in your sidebar to better support how you use Mattermost. Any customizations you make you to your sidebar affects only your Mattermost instance. 

Your new sidebar is set up as follows by default:
- All of the channels you've joined display in a **Channels** category, and all channels are sorted in alphabetical order.
- All Direct Messages display in a **Direct Messages** category below channels, and all Direct Messages are sorted by recent activity.

What's customizable in your sidebar?
------------------------------------

You can choose to customize your sidebar in the following ways:
- Group and order channels into categories customized just for you.
- Mute and unmute entire categories or mute and unmute selected channels or Direct Messages.
- Sort category channels manually, alphabetically, or by recent activity.
- Group unread messages into an **Unreads** category.
- Control how many Direct Message conversations to display.
- Control how Direct Messages are sorted.

> [TOC]

Author: Given the number of H1 headings in the LHS, I believe the navigation will be clear without a TOC. Happy to revisit later (and I'll double-check to ensure that this placeholder is removed).

- All Direct Messages are sorted by recent activity.

What can you customize?
-----------------------

You can customize your sidebar in the following ways:

- Group and order channels into categories customized just for you.
- Mute and unmute entire categories.
- Sort category channels manually, alphabetically, or by recent activity.
- Group unread messages into an **Unreads** category.
- Sort Direct Messages alphabetically or by recent activity.
- Control how many Direct Message conversations to display.

Creating custom categories
--------------------------

Creating your own custom categories enables you to group channels together for easier navigation (e.g. “Design” or “Marketing”).

Categories can be created in two ways:

- Select the **+** symbol to the right of the **History** arrows at the top of the sidebar.
- Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Create New Category**.

Next, type a category name, select **Create**, then drag any channels or Direct Messages into this new category. You can also multi-select channels and Direct Messages to drag them together as a group.

Making categories work for you
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> **Categories are collapsible.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Categories are collapsible**
```

- When collapsed, only unread channels display to reduce unnecessary scrolling.
- When expanded, all channels in the category display, including channels with unread messages.

> **You can reorder categories.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**You can reorder categories**
```

- Drag to reorder entire categories to prioritize important conversations. 

> **Categories can contain Direct Message conversations.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Categories can contain Direct Message conversations**
```

> - Click and drag Direct Messages into any category. You can also multi-select Direct Messages to drag them together as a group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select and drag Direct Messages into any category. You can also multi-select Direct Messages to drag them together as a group.
```

    .. image:: ../../images/sidebar_ga.gif

Renaming categories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Rename Category**.
2. Type a new category name, then select **Rename**.

Deleting categories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Delete Category**.
2. Select **Delete** to confirm or select **X** to cancel.

> All channels and Direct Message conversations in the deleted category move back to their default **Channels** and **Direct Messages** categories. Deleting a category never removes you from channels you have joined. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All channels and Direct Message conversations in the deleted category move back to their default **Channels** and **Direct Messages** categories. Deleting a category never removes you from channels you have joined.
```

Organizing channels in categories
---------------------------------

Once you have categories, you can move channels into your categories to organize your sidebar.

Multi-selecting channels and Direct Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using the Mattermost Web or Desktop App:

> - Select sequential channels and/or Direct Messages by pressing and holding SHIFT. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select sequential channels and/or Direct Messages then press and hold the SHIFT key on your keyboard. 
```

Author: In this case, the user needs to press and hold keyboard keys in order to select multiple items at a time.

> - Select non-sequential channels and/or Direct Messages by pressing and holding CMD (for Mac) or CTRL (for Windows/Linux). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select non-sequential channels and/or Direct Messages then press and hold CMD (for Mac) or CTRL (for Windows/Linux) on your keyboard. 
```

Author: In this case, the user needs to press and hold keyboard keys in order to select multiple items at a time.

Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Sort** and choose from **Alphabetically**, **Recent Activity**, or **Manually**.

    .. image:: ../../images/sort-categories.gif

Grouping unread messages
------------------------

Catch up on all your unread channels in one place at the top of your sidebar with a one-click **Unreads** category.

Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, set **Group unread channels separately** to **On**, then select **Save**.

- When this setting is enabled, all unread messages appear only in the **Unreads** category.
- When this setting is disabled, all unread messages appear within their respective categories and channels.

When enabled, the **Unreads** category is organized as follows:

- Unread messages that contain mentions are sorted to the top by most recent activity.
- Unread messages that do not contain mentions are sorted by most recent and appear directly below unread messages containing mentions.
- Muted channels that contain mentions are sorted by most recent and appear directly below unread messages without mentions.

    .. image:: ../../images/unreads.gif

.. tip::

>   If you prefer to see a decicated unread-only view in your sidebar, collapse all custom categories to show only unread messages, then disable **Grouping unread messages** under **Account Settings > Sidebar**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you prefer to see a dedicated unread-only view in your sidebar, collapse all custom categories to show only unread messages, then disable **Grouping unread messages** under **Account Settings > Sidebar**.
```

Sorting your Direct Messages
----------------------------

Sort your Direct Messages alphabetically or by recent conversations first.

Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Sort** and choose from **Alphabetically** or **Recent Activity**.

How many Direct Messages to display?
------------------------------------

Control how many Direct Message conversations display in the **Direct Messages** category to keep your conversations manageable. You can choose to show all messages or a fixed number of messages.

You have two ways to configure the number of Direct Messages to display:

> - Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, then set **Number of direct messages to show**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, then set **Number of direct messages to show**.

or
```

> - Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Show**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Show**.
```

> Choose from **All direct messages**, or choose to show **10**, **15**, **20**, or **40** messages.

Reviewer: Suggestion: This may work better in the same paragraph as the previous sentence. Thoughts?

> Once you exceed the number of Direct Messages configured, older messages are hidden from the **Direct Messages** category. Increase the number of conversations displayed to see older Direct Messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you exceed the number of Direct Messages configured, older messages are hidden from the **Direct Messages** category. You can increase the number of conversations displayed to see older Direct Messages.
```

.. note::

>   Any direct message conversations you've added to custom categories do not count against the maximum number of conversations shown in the **Direct Messages** category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Direct Message conversations that you add to custom categories don't count against the maximum number of conversations shown in the **Direct Messages** category.
```

> Mobile support for this feature is coming in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile support for this feature will be available in a future release.
```

> Organizing Your Sidebar

Reviewer 2: In preview mode, this page looks broken. Unsure if the file should be "md" instead of "rst" or what the issue may be.

Author: @amyblais I've built the docs locally and can confirm that this page is working as expected.

=======================

> You can organize your sidebar based on how you use Mattermost. Customizations you make to your sidebar only changes your Mattermost sidebar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can organize your sidebar based on how you use Mattermost. Customizations you make only apply to your Mattermost sidebar.
```

> Here's how your sidebar is set up by default:

Reviewer 3: Here’s how your sidebar is setup by-default:

- All channels you've joined appear in the Channels category, sorted alphabetically.
- All your Direct Messages appear in the Direct Messages category, sorted by recent activity.

> - All of the channels you've joined display in a **Channels** category. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All of the channels you've joined are listed in the **Channels** category.
```

- All channels are sorted in alphabetical order.

> - All Direct Messages display in a **Direct Messages** category below channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All Direct Messages are listed in the **Direct Messages** category below channels.
```

- All Direct Messages are sorted by recent activity.

What can you customize?
-----------------------

You can customize your sidebar in the following ways:

> - Group and order channels into categories customized just for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Group and order channels into categories you create.
```

- Mute and unmute entire categories.
- Sort category channels manually, alphabetically, or by recent activity.
- Group unread messages into an **Unreads** category.
- Sort Direct Messages alphabetically or by recent activity.

> - Control how many Direct Message conversations to display.

Reviewer: Control how many to display at once or in general?

Author: @justinegeffen In this case the answer is the same: both at once and in general. Do you have suggestions for clarity for this bullet point given that clarification?

Creating custom categories
--------------------------

Create custom categories to group channels together for quicker and easier navigation (e.g. “Design” or “Marketing”).

Categories can be created in two ways:

- Select the **+** symbol to the right of the **History** arrows at the top of the sidebar.
- Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Create New Category**.

> Next, type a category name, select **Create**, then drag any channels or Direct Messages into this new category. You can also multi-select channels and Direct Messages to drag them together as a group.

Author: I'm not 100% sure we can successfully create links to other sections within the same document. I'll follow-up with @justinegeffen on this one.

> Next, type a category name, select **Create**, then drag any channels or Direct Messages into this new category. You can also multi-select channels and Direct Messages to drag them together as a group.

Author: Confirmed that links to subheadings within a single page are something we would need to enable via Sphinx and test in a safe environment prior to rolling out to Production.

- When collapsed, only unread channels display to reduce unnecessary scrolling.
- When expanded, all channels in the category display, including channels with unread messages.

**You can reorder categories**

- Drag to reorder entire categories to prioritize important conversations. 

**Categories can contain Direct Message conversations**

- Select and drag Direct Messages into any category. You can also multi-select Direct Messages to drag them together as a group.

    .. image:: ../../images/sidebar_ga.gif

Renaming categories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Rename Category**.
2. Type a new category name, then select **Rename**.

Deleting categories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Delete Category**.
2. Select **Delete** to confirm or select **X** to cancel.

All channels and Direct Message conversations in the deleted category move back to their default **Channels** and **Direct Messages** categories. Deleting a category never removes you from channels you have joined. 

Organizing channels in categories
---------------------------------

> Once you have categories, you can move channels into your categories to organize your sidebar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've created categories, you can move channels within them to organize your sidebar.
```

Multi-selecting channels and Direct Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using the Mattermost Web or Desktop App:

- Select sequential channels and/or Direct Messages by pressing and holding SHIFT. 
- Select non-sequential channels and/or Direct Messages by pressing and holding CMD (for Mac) or CTRL (for Windows/Linux). 
- Press ESC to clear channel or Direct Message selections.

Multi-selected channels and Direct Messages move together as a group in the order they originally appeared.

Dragging and dropping selections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the Mattermost Web or Desktop App, drag selected channels and/or Direct Messages between or within categories. 

    .. image:: ../../images/multi-select-drag.gif

Moving selections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In addition to selecting and dragging, you can also specify a destination for selected channels and/or Direct Messages using the **Move to** option under the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar.  

    .. image:: ../../images/multi-select-move.gif

Muting and unmuting categories
------------------------------

> When you mute or unmute a category, all channels within that category are also muted or unmuted. 

Reviewer 3: When you mute or unmute a category, all channels within that category are also muted or unmuted. You can still selectively unmute specific channels within a muted category.

Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Mute Category**.

Once a category is muted:

- Email, desktop, and push notifications are disabled for all channels in the category.

> - A mute icon displays next to each channel name in the category.

Reviewer 3: lets remove this point

Author: @esethna - Which point specifically do you want omitted from the documentation? The mute icon or the notifications?

> - The category and all of its channels are greyed out in the left-hand sidebar. Channels in the category aren't marked as unread unless you’re mentioned directly.

Reviewer 3: greyed out > appear at reduced opacity

Author: I've applied this update to both the new sidebar page as well as the content under Organizing Conversations.

> - You can selectively unmute specific channels within the category.

Reviewer 3: Remove so it's not duplicated with above

To unmute the category, select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Unmute Category**.

    .. image:: ../../images/mute-categories.gif

> Sorting category channels

Reviewer 3: Sorting channels in categories

-------------------------

Using the Mattermost Web or Desktop App, you can control how channels are sorted for each category. Sort category channels manually (by dragging and dropping), alphabetically, or by recent conversations first.

Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Sort** and choose from **Alphabetically**, **Recent Activity**, or **Manually**.

    .. image:: ../../images/sort-categories.gif

Grouping unread messages
------------------------

> Catch up on all your unread channels in one place at the top of your sidebar with a one-click **Unreads** category.

Reviewer 3: Catch up on all your unread channels in one place at the top of your sidebar with a one-click **Unreads** category. > By default, Mattermost offers a one-click **Unreads filter** to only show channels with unread activity. Instead, you may choose to automatically group unread channels in their own category at the top of your sidebar.

Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, set **Group unread channels separately** to **On**, then select **Save**.

- When this setting is enabled, all unread messages appear only in the **Unreads** category.
- When this setting is disabled, all unread messages appear within their respective categories and channels.

> When enabled, the **Unreads** category is organized as follows:

Reviewer 3: We porbably don't need to go to this level of detail on how the sorting works for the unread category. Maybe it's enough to just say "When enabled, unread channels with mentions will sort to the top of the category"

- Unread messages that contain mentions are sorted to the top by most recent activity.
- Unread messages that do not contain mentions are sorted by most recent and appear directly below unread messages containing mentions.
- Muted channels that contain mentions are sorted by most recent and appear directly below unread messages without mentions.

>     .. image:: ../../images/unreads.gif

Reviewer 3: In this gif can we start with showing the unread filter being toggled, then go to account settings and enable unreads section?

.. tip::

>   If you prefer to see a decicated unread-only view in your sidebar, collapse all custom categories to show only unread messages, then disable **Grouping unread messages** under **Account Settings > Sidebar**.

Reviewer 3: Grouping unread messages > Group unread channels separately

Reviewer 3: If you prefer to see only unread channels in their respective categories, we recommend collapsing your custom categories and disabling **Group unread channels separately** in **Account Settings > Sidebar**.

Sorting your Direct Messages
----------------------------

Sort your Direct Messages alphabetically or by recent conversations first.

Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Sort** and choose from **Alphabetically** or **Recent Activity**.

> How many Direct Messages to display?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controlling the number of displayed Direct Messages
```

Author: @justinegeffen A heading this long tends to get cut off in the LHS. Do you have suggestions for avoiding such cutoff?

Reviewer: Good point! How about "Managing displayed Direct Messages"?

------------------------------------

Control how many Direct Message conversations display in the **Direct Messages** category to keep your conversations manageable. You can choose to show all messages or a fixed number of messages.

You have two ways to configure the number of Direct Messages to display:

> - Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, then set **Number of direct messages to show**.

Reviewer 3: ... then set **Number of direct messages to show**, or

Author: Let's stick with the current either/or paradigm established for now. @justinegeffen and I will review as part of Style Guide updates.

> or

Reviewer 3: remove

- Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Show**

Choose from **All direct messages**, or choose to show **10**, **15**, **20**, or **40** messages.

> Once you exceed the number of Direct Messages configured, older messages are hidden from the **Direct Messages** category. You can increase the number of conversations displayed to see older Direct Messages.

Reviewer 3: You can always increase the number of conversations displayed to see older Direct Messages.

.. note::
  Direct Message conversations that you add to custom categories don't count against the maximum number of conversations shown in the **Direct Messages** category.

Mobile support for this feature will be available in a future release.

>     .. image:: ../../images/dm-display.gif

Reviewer 3: Move gif above note

Organizing Your Sidebar
=======================

> Conversations in Mattermost are crucial to company productivity and success. Keeping conversations organized in the sidebar creates an efficient workplace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conversations in Mattermost are crucial to company productivity and success. Keeping conversations organized in the sidebar creates an efficient workplace.
```

Public channels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Public channels are open to everyone on a team. New team members are automatically added to two Public channels when they sign up: ``Town Square`` and ``Off-Topic``.

Private channels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Private channels are for sensitive topics and are only visible to select team members. In Team Edition, any member of a Private channel can add or remove other members from Private channels, but in Enterprise Edition `these permissions can be restricted to the Channel Admins and System Admins <https://docs.mattermost.com/help/getting-started/managing-members.html#user-roles>`__.

Direct Messages and Group Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use a Direct Message when you want a private conversation with one person. Use a Group Message when you want to set up a private conversation with up to seven other participants. If you want to communicate with more than seven people, you must create a Private channel. Direct and Group Messages are visible only to the people involved.

If your System Admin has allowed it, you can start a Direct Message or a Group Message with people on other teams.

Customizing your sidebar
------------------------

> You can organize your channel sidebar based on how you use Mattermost. Customizations you make are only visible to you and won't affect what your teammates see in their sidebars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can organize the sidebar based on how you use Mattermost. Customizations you make are only visible to you and won't affect what your teammates see in their sidebars.
```

Here’s how your sidebar is set up by default:

- All Public and Private Channels you've joined are listed in the **Channels** category, sorted alphabetically.
- All your Direct Messages and Group Messages are listed in the **Direct Messages** category, sorted by recent activity.

What can you customize?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can customize your sidebar in the following ways:

- Group and order channels into collapsible categories you create.
- Sort channels in each category manually, alphabetically, or by recent activity.
- Mute and unmute entire categories.
- Filter your sidebar to view unread channels only, or choose to group unread messages into an **Unreads** category.
- Sort Direct Messages alphabetically or by recent activity, and choose how many are displayed in your sidebar.

  .. image:: ../../images/channel_sidebar_updates.gif

Creating custom categories
--------------------------

Create custom categories to group channels together for quicker and easier navigation. For example, you can create a category called "Design" or "Marketing".

> Categories can be created in two ways:

Reviewer: I propose that the two options be split into 1. and 2. One sentence for both options is a bit confusing and makes the next sentence seem like it's option two.

Author: I agree that updating the preceding text before describing the two ways of doing things is the best option, given the convention. I've updated both instances like this.

- When this setting is disabled, all unread messages appear within their respective categories and channels. You can use the **Unread filter** to focus on only unread channels in the sidebar.

When enabled, unread channels with mentions will sort to the top of the category.

    .. image:: ../../images/unreads.gif

.. tip::
  
  If you prefer to see only unread channels in their respective categories, we recommend collapsing your custom categories and disabling **Group unread channels separately** under **Account Settings > Sidebar**.

Managing Direct Messages
------------------------

To sort your Direct Messages, select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Sort** and choose from **Alphabetically** or **Recent Activity**.

How many Direct Messages to display?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Control how many Direct Message conversations display in the **Direct Messages** category to keep your conversations manageable. You can choose to show all messages or a fixed number of messages.

You have two ways to configure the number of Direct Messages to display:

> - Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, then set **Number of direct messages to show**. Or select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Show**.

Reviewer: Same feedback as for the previous instance of this: Indicating that there are two options should result in two separate options rather than a single sentence. The bullet should also be removed imo.

Alternatively, this can remain as-is, but the preceding sentence should be reworded to: "You can configure the number of Direct Messages to display:".

Author: Good feedback, @justinegeffen . We'll want to review this convention against the rest of the UG content and identify a good path forward.

Here’s how your sidebar is set up by default:

- All channels you've joined are listed in the **Channels** category, sorted alphabetically.
- All your Direct Messages are listed in the **Direct Messages** category, sorted by recent activity.

What can you customize?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can customize your sidebar in the following ways:

- Group and order channels into collapsible categories you create.
- Sort each channel in a category manually, alphabetically, or by recent activity.
- Mute and unmute entire categories.
- Filter your sidebar to view unread channels only, or choose to group unread messages into an **Unreads** category.
- Sort Direct Messages alphabetically or by recent activity, and choose how many are displayed in your sidebar.

  .. image:: ../../images/channel_sidebar_updates.gif

Creating custom categories
--------------------------

Create custom categories to group channels together for quicker and easier navigation (e.g. “Design” or “Marketing”). For example, you can create a category called "Design" or "Marketing".

Categories can be created in two ways:

- Select the **+** symbol at the top of the sidebar.

> Or

Author: The real estate savings in the condensed approach is significant. I've applied this formatting consistently on this page as follows:

- Sentence case text ends in a semi-colon; or, 
  - Next bulleted line is intended by 2 spaces, also sentence case, and ends in a period.
  
  @justinegeffen -- What are your thoughts on updating our either/or constructions across the UG like this?

- Select the **More options...** icon in the sidebar on any category header, then select **Create New Category**.

> Next, type a category name, select **Create**, then drag any channels or Direct Messages into this new category. You can also multi-select channels and Direct Messages to drag them together as a group using CTRL/CMD or SHIFT. See **Dragging and dropping selections** below for details.

Author: Updated "click" for "select" to remain inline with Style Guide practices.

**Categories can contain Direct Message conversations**

- Select and drag Direct Messages into any category. You can also multi-select Direct Messages to drag them together as a group.

Renaming categories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Rename Category**.
2. Type a new category name, then select **Rename**.

Deleting categories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Delete Category**.
2. Select **Delete** to confirm or select **X** to cancel.

All channels and Direct Message conversations in the deleted category move back to their default **Channels** and **Direct Messages** categories. Deleting a category never removes you from channels you have joined. 

Organizing channels in categories
---------------------------------

Once you've created categories, you can move channels within them to organize your sidebar.

Dragging and dropping selections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the Mattermost Web or Desktop App, drag selected channels and/or Direct Messages between or within categories. 

> .. tip::

Reviewer 3: I'd propose the three bullets and the subsequent sentence are a tip together. Perhaps that was the intention but the syntax got messed up

```
Multi-selected channels and Direct Messages move together as a group in the order they originally appeared.

- Select sequential channels and/or Direct Messages by pressing and holding SHIFT. 
- Select non-sequential channels and/or Direct Messages by pressing and holding CMD (for Mac) or CTRL (for Windows/Linux).
- Press ESC to clear channel or Direct Message selections.
```

I also think that it needs to be clear that you have to "click". ie Shift + Click, CMD + Click, so propose we work that into the above wording

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14333569/106948787-01466f00-66e1-11eb-84ca-39a664c63732.png)

Muting and unmuting categories
------------------------------

When you mute or unmute a category, all channels within that category are also muted or unmuted. You can still selectively unmute specific channels within a muted category.

Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Mute Category**.

Once a category is muted:

- Email, desktop, and push notifications are disabled for all channels in the category.
- A mute icon displays next to each channel name in the category.
- The category and all of its channels appear at reduced opacity in the left-hand sidebar. Channels in the category aren't marked as unread unless you’re mentioned directly.

To unmute the category, select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Unmute Category**.

    .. image:: ../../images/mute-categories.gif

Sorting channels in categories
------------------------------

Select the **Category options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Sort** and choose from **Alphabetically**, **Recent Activity**, or **Manually**.

    .. image:: ../../images/sort-categories.gif

Grouping unread messages
------------------------

> Catch up on all your unread channels in one place at the top of your sidebar with a one-click **Unreads** category. By default, Mattermost offers a one-click **Unreads** filter to only show channels with unread activity. Instead, you may choose to automatically group unread channels in their own category at the top of your sidebar.

Reviewer 3: Let's remove the first sentence: Catch up on all your unread channels in one place at the top of your sidebar with a one-click **Unreads** category

Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, set **Group unread channels separately** to **On**, then select **Save**.

> - When this setting is enabled, all unread messages appear only in the **Unreads** category.

Reviewer 3: When this setting is enabled, all unread messages appear only in the **Unreads** category, sorted with mentions first.

> - When this setting is disabled, all unread messages appear within their respective categories and channels.

Reviewer 3: When this setting is disabled, all unread messages appear within their respective categories and channels. You can use the unread filter to focus on only unread channels in the sidebar.

> When enabled, the **Unreads** category is organized as follows:

Reviewer 3: let's remove this and the three bullets below please. I think we added enough detail to the point above, ie: When this setting is enabled, all unread messages appear only in the Unreads category, sorted with mentions first.

- Unread messages that contain mentions are sorted to the top by most recent activity.
- Unread messages that do not contain mentions are sorted by most recent and appear directly below unread messages containing mentions.
- Muted channels that contain mentions are sorted by most recent and appear directly below unread messages without mentions.

    .. image:: ../../images/unreads.gif

.. tip::
  If you prefer to see a decicated unread-only view in your sidebar, collapse all custom categories to show only unread messages, then disable **Grouping unread messages** under **Account Settings > Sidebar**.

Sorting your Direct Messages
----------------------------

Sort your Direct Messages alphabetically or by recent conversations first.

Select the **Channel options** icon in the sidebar, then select **Sort** and choose from **Alphabetically** or **Recent Activity**.

> How many Direct Messages to display?

Reviewer 3: Perhaps go a step down on heading for this one and change the heading of the section above to Managing Direct Messages. 0/5

------------------------------------

Control how many Direct Message conversations display in the **Direct Messages** category to keep your conversations manageable. You can choose to show all messages or a fixed number of messages.

You have two ways to configure the number of Direct Messages to display:

- Go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Sidebar**, then set **Number of direct messages to show**.

> Or

Reviewer 3: Same here with the "or", really hard to read, sorry
